Enchanted Forest Adventure Mod
Minecraft Version: 1.19
Mod Loader: Fabric
Author: Mathio

Overview
The Enchanted Forest Adventure mod introduces a new biome called the Enchanted Forest to Minecraft. This mystical biome is filled with unique flora, creatures, and structures that enhance your gameplay experience.

Features
New Biome: Enchanted Forest
Lush environment with Mystic Trees and ambient magical particles.
New Mobs:
Forest Sprite: Friendly beings that grant buffs to players.
Tree Guardian: Powerful entities that protect the forest.
Custom Items:
Magic Wand: Allows players to cast spells like shooting fireballs.
Enchanted Fruit: Consumable that grants special abilities.
Custom Blocks:
Mystic Log: Wood from Mystic Trees.
Mystic Leaves: Leaves from Mystic Trees.
Custom Structures:
Ancient Shrine: Hidden structures containing valuable loot.
Table of Contents
Project Structure
Setup Instructions
Prerequisites
Project Setup
Running the Mod
Mod Details
Blocks
Items
Entities
Biome
Assets and Resources
Notes and Considerations
Additional Resources
License
Project Structure

Collapse
enchantedforest/
├── build.gradle
├── gradle.properties
├── settings.gradle
├── LICENSE
├── src/
    ├── main/
        ├── java/
        │   └── com/yourname/enchantedforest/
        │       ├── EnchantedForestMod.java
        │       ├── registry/
        │       │   ├── ModBlocks.java
        │       │   ├── ModItems.java
        │       │   ├── ModEntities.java
        │       │   └── ModBiomes.java
        │       ├── world/biome/
        │       │   └── EnchantedForestBiome.java
        │       ├── entities/
        │       │   ├── ForestSpriteEntity.java
        │       │   └── TreeGuardianEntity.java
        │       └── items/
        │           ├── MagicWandItem.java
        │           └── EnchantedFruitItem.java
        └── resources/
            ├── fabric.mod.json
            ├── assets/
            │   └── enchantedforest/
            │       ├── textures/
            │       ├── models/
            │       └── lang/
            └── data/
                └── enchantedforest/
Setup Instructions
Prerequisites
Java Development Kit (JDK) 17 or higher.
Minecraft Java Edition version 1.19.
Fabric Mod Loader and Fabric API for Minecraft 1.19.
Gradle build tool.
Integrated Development Environment (IDE): IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse recommended.
Git (optional, for version control).
Project Setup
Clone the Repository:

If you have a Git repository, clone it using:

BASH

git clone https://github.com/yourname/enchantedforest.git
Otherwise, create a new directory for the project and place all the files accordingly.

Set Up the Development Environment:

Open your IDE.
Import the project by selecting the build.gradle file.
Wait for Gradle to download all necessary dependencies.
Configure Gradle:

Ensure your gradle.properties and build.gradle files are correctly set up. The project is configured to use Java 17 and Minecraft 1.19.

Assets and Resources:

Add your textures and models to the assets/enchantedforest/ directory.
Update JSON files for block states, models, and language translations.
Running the Mod
Set Up Run Configuration:

In your IDE, create a new run configuration.
Set the main class to net.fabricmc.devlaunchinjector.Main.
Use the client environment.
Run the Client:

Start the Minecraft client from your IDE.
Create a new world or use an existing one for testing.
Verify that the mod functionalities are working as expected.
Building the Mod JAR:

Use Gradle to build the mod:

BASH

./gradlew build
The mod JAR file will be located in build/libs/.

Installing the Mod:

Copy the mod JAR file to your Minecraft mods folder.
Ensure that Fabric Loader and Fabric API are installed.
Mod Details
Blocks
Mystic Log:

Description: Wood from the Mystic Trees in the Enchanted Forest.
Uses: Building material, can be crafted into planks.
Mystic Leaves:

Description: Leaves from Mystic Trees.
Uses: Decorative block, may drop Enchanted Fruits.
Items
Magic Wand:

Description: A wand imbued with magical powers.
Functionality: Allows the player to cast spells, such as shooting fireballs.
Crafting Recipe: Custom recipe defined in data files.
Enchanted Fruit:

Description: A rare fruit with mystical properties.
Functionality: Grants the player special abilities like levitation when consumed.
Entities
Forest Sprite:

Type: Passive mob.
Behavior: Friendly; may follow players and grant buffs upon interaction.
Spawn: Commonly found in the Enchanted Forest biome.
Tree Guardian:

Type: Hostile mob.
Behavior: Attacks players who harm the forest.
Abilities: Strong melee attacks and high health.
Biome
Enchanted Forest Biome:

Environment: Lush forests with Mystic Trees and ambient magic particles.
Features: Unique vegetation, custom structures like Ancient Shrines.
Mobs: Home to Forest Sprites and Tree Guardians.
Assets and Resources
Textures:

Create custom textures for blocks, items, and entities.
Place texture files in assets/enchantedforest/textures/.
Models:

Define block and item models in assets/enchantedforest/models/.
Language Files:

Add translations in assets/enchantedforest/lang/en_us.json.
Data Files:

Loot Tables: Define in data/enchantedforest/loot_tables/.
Recipes: Add custom recipes in data/enchantedforest/recipes/.
World Generation: Configure biome features in data/enchantedforest/worldgen/.
Notes and Considerations
Texture and Model Creation:

Use tools like Blockbench for entity models.
Create textures using graphic editors like GIMP or Aseprite.
Entity AI and Behavior:

Implement custom AI tasks for new mobs.
Balance the spawn rates and abilities for fair gameplay.
Biome Customization:

Adjust biome parameters to achieve the desired atmosphere.
Add unique features like ambient sounds or particles.
Testing:

Regularly test changes in a controlled environment.
Check for compatibility with other mods if applicable.
Packaging the Mod:

Ensure all assets and data files are correctly referenced.
Verify that the mod loads without errors before distributing.
Additional Resources
Fabric Mod Development:

Fabric Wiki
Fabric API GitHub
Modding Tutorials:

Modding Tutorial Playlist
Modeling and Texturing Tools:

Blockbench
Aseprite
GIMP
Community Forums:

Minecraft Forge Forums
Fabric Discord Server


Creating a ZIP Archive
To package all the project files into a ZIP archive:

Ensure all files are saved and up to date.

Navigate to the Project Directory:

Open a terminal or command prompt and navigate to the root directory of the project.

Create the ZIP File:

On Windows:

BATCH

tar -a -c -f enchantedforest.zip enchantedforest/
On macOS/Linux:

BASH

zip -r enchantedforest.zip enchantedforest/
Verify the ZIP File:

Ensure that enchantedforest.zip contains all the project files and directories.
Distribute or Archive:

You can now share the ZIP file or keep it as a backup of your project.
Conclusion
The Enchanted Forest Adventure mod offers an immersive experience by adding new content to Minecraft. This project serves to cover key aspects such as:

World Generation: Creating custom biomes and structures.
Entity Programming: Implementing new creatures with unique behaviors.
Item and Block Development: Designing custom items and blocks with special functionalities.
Resource Management: Handling textures, models, and other assets.
By following this guide, you can set up the project, understand its structure, and start customizing or extending the mod to your liking.

